[Music]
ten awesome techniques to become a
skilled driver do you remember your
first time driving a car you are
probably 16 and somewhat nervous your
driving instructor or was that your dad
was teaching you all it takes to make
your car move without getting yourself
and others in trouble good times now
years later you probably sometimes still
feel like you could learn some more
tricks to make driving an even better
experience we can help you with that let
us take a look at 10 awesome tips we
have put together to make your driving
safer and more satisfying we promise you
will love them and will be surprised at
how comfortable you feel sitting in your
favorite set of wheels do you want to
drive like a pro if you do give this
video a thumbs up and watch it till the
end number 10 take a defensive driving
course everyone can take additional
courses to master their skills defensive
driving courses are taken not only by
beginners but by experienced drivers as
well the best thing about defensive
driving courses is that you can take
them online and they only cost around
thirty dollars but will save you much
more money now taking a state and court
approved course can be the reason for
traffic ticket dismissal it will also
help you save up to 10% on car insurance
and take violation points off your
driving record not bad right
Plus even if you think you know the
traffic rules perfectly fine because
you've been driving every day for years
some things just fade away and you never
know when you might need them again
taking a defensive driving course you
can refresh your memories on what the
difference between a DUI and a DWI and
why you shouldn't do either of them and
many other important things
there isn't anything shameful in the
desire to keep other drivers and
yourself away from danger there is no
such thing as too old or too smart to
study live and learn
number 9 brake with your left foot
this is something you are probably
taught not to do while taking driving
lessons it even sounds unnatural however
it is a powerful trick used by auto
races they do it to save time because it
really matters to them you know braking
with their left foot they don't have to
waste precious fractions of a second
while moving the right foot to the brake
pedal left foot braking also lets them
use the brake and the gas at the same
time it is a difficult technique that
requires regular practice but it is
worth it even if you don't plan to
become an auto racer this skill can help
you in case of emergency using this
technique you will be able to turn very
quickly by keeping up the necessary
engine speed maintaining the same
driving speed and controlling over
steering at the same time
number eight move at the same speed as
other vehicles everybody learns this
rule in driver education courses but not
all drivers follow it you probably want
to be the first and everything but
driving in a stream of cars is not the
right time and place to show your
leadership qualities driving at a speed
that is lower or higher than the speed
of other traffic is dangerous and it can
cause accidents that's why when choosing
your speed you should first take into
account traffic density see it as your
patience testing ground and stay safe
number seven keep your hands on the
wheel at the proper position for years
driving instructors taught students to
keep their hands on the steering wheel
at the 10 and 2 positions as if on a
clock but in the last 4 years
instructors advise keeping your hands
lower at either nine and three or eight
and fourth this provides you with better
control when driving have you ever felt
the tension in your hands after long
driving then we have good news for you
the new recommended position is also the
most ergonomic position to hold your
hands in for a long period of time
relaxed muscles and better control over
your car this trick will of course make
your driving a better experience number
six
control under steering and over steering
in cases of under steering the front
tires lose traction on the road surface
while turning because of the speed of
acceleration in cases of over steering
the same thing happens with the rear
tires if you're driving on a wet
or icy road don't accelerate too much
driving at a moderate speed will help
you avoid most cases of understeering
or over steering this will help you stay
out of trouble and traffic accidents
attention in cases of under steering or
over steering never release the gas or
brake pedals too quickly we are halfway
through the list have you learned any
new tricks you want to try out so far
you can share them in the comments keep
watching this video till the end to find
out what heel-toe downshifting is and
how to properly adjust your side mirrors
to avoid accidents
number 5 park precisely what was the
hardest part of the learning process
when you were taking driving lessons
many people will say parallel parking
like this video if you agree with them
it is ok to admit it probably made
little sense to you back then why is
parallel parking so important and it is
so time-consuming and confusing if you
can parallel park perfectly you won't be
afraid of crowded parking lots also you
will be more confident when driving a
car in Reverse when you master it you
will be able to park any vehicle in a
matter of seconds still finding it
complicated
parking sensors or part Ronix can help
you a great deal they can be useful in
both forward and reverse movements
number 4 use the handbrake to perform a
handbrake turn this technique like left
foot braking requires practice and like
left foot braking it is widely used by
auto racers it helps them keep momentum
when getting around a tight corner there
are many of those on a racing track the
racer locks up the rear wheels slows the
car and points it in the right direction
without losing speed he cares so much
about again this trick is not only good
for racers and it can help you in an
emergency it can also be handy if you
have to perform a sharp fast turn and
winner but don't do overuse this
technique and don't try it on dry
asphalt unless you want to expose the
tires to premature wear
number three use heel-toe downshifting
it might look like making some hip-hop
moves with your feet on gas and brake
but in fact it is a great and useful
trick the sense of this technique
consists in shifting the transmission
down from a higher gear to a lower one
by hitting the gas pedal with your heel
and braking with your toe at the same
time it reduces the time required for
shifting gears prevents the unloading of
rear wheels and allows fast and smooth
down shifting before turning more than
that your transmission will live longer
if you use this technique number two pay
attention to cars in the distance what
do you normally look at while moving in
heavy traffic most definitely your
nearest surroundings it is of course
important for your safety but one trick
you should learn is to look ahead to see
if you notice brake lights a quarter
mile ahead of you it can save you some
valuable seconds enough to stop your car
and not get in an accident even if you
are a very experienced driver always
stay alert and focus and reallocate your
attention you never know what can happen
on the road number one adjust the
mirrors to eliminate blind spots being
an experienced driver is first of all
about driving safely you can't do it if
your side mirrors are not properly
adjusted if the side mirrors mostly
reflect the flanks of your car it means
that you are not making proper use of
the whole reflecting surfaces to adjust
the rear view mirrors properly you
should remember some simple rules the
driver side mirror should reflect only a
quarter of the car a part of its rear
wing the passenger side mirror like the
drivers one should reflect only the rear
quarter of the vehicle the cabins
rearview mirror should reflect the rear
window right in the center of it we are
sure if you use these awesome techniques
it will take your driving experience to
a whole new level if you found this
video useful make sure to like it and
share it with your friends they also
deserve to know how to drive like a pro
subscribe to our channel not to miss any
updates there is more great stuff on the
way join us on the bright side
you